In this project, we applied data preprocessing, data visualization and machine learning methods.

This is a class Data Analysis Project
We Analyzed the NYM Batting data set that takes into account the batting statistics of all New York Mets players from the franchise’s creation in 1962 until the end of the 2023 season. This data set refers to many different batting and offensive statistics that help evaluate players. This data set has accrued data from three main categories, demographic statistics, counting statistics, and averaged statistics. Demographic statistics in this data set include a player’s dominant hand, whether they are a switch hitter or not, their age and  position that they play. The counting statistics are statistics that increase only when a players achieves the feat of what the statistics represents such as Total Bases, Strikeout, Bases on Balls, Runs Scored, Home Runs, Doubles, Triples, Hits, Runs Scored, At Bats, Plate Appearances and Games 
Played. Finally, the last category is referred to as averaged statistics which use a formula of certain of the counting statistics to get an average that is comparable across all players regardless of how many games they have played during the season. The topic that we will be analyzing is a player’s power which will be analyzed using a player’s slugging percentage. Slugging percentage is an average statistics that is calculated by dividing the Total Bases that a player has accrued divided by the total number of at bats they have accrued. This is the best statistic for deriving a players power because it is an average statistic which does not help or penalize any player based on the number of games played or at bats accrued. Additionally, this weights each hit a player gets by its usage of total bases in the numerator, by explaining that a player who has more power should be getting more extra base hits like doubles, triples and home runs worth 2, 3, and 4 bases respectively than singles which are only worth 1 base. 
